---
title: Express Trusts
permalink: /trusts/express-trusts/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<p><strong><u>Express Trusts</u></strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><strong>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Basic Features of Express Trusts</strong></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>An express trust is formed when a <strong>settlor</strong> intentionally transfers property to a <strong>trustee</strong>, for the trustee to hold on trust for <strong>beneficiaries. </strong>A settlor can also declare himself to be a trustee for the beneficiaries.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>The trustee is the legal owner of the property held under the trust. He holds and manages the trust property for the benefit of the beneficiaries, and distributes the income and capital of the trust property to them, according to the express terms as set out by the settlor. &nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The beneficiaries have a beneficial interest in the trust property. This means that they are entitled to benefit from the trust property.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The settlor also has the option to appoint a <strong>protector</strong> to supervise the trustee and prevent the trustee from abusing his powers. Protector(s), if appointed, typically have the power to veto or authorise the trustee in carrying out certain functions. &nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Properties that are typically placed in trusts include cash, land, family businesses, shares, jewellery, art and more.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><u>What trusts are for:</u></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>Trusts may be set up for a number of reasons, including:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Wealth protection</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Succession planning</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Provide for a dependent with special needs <a href="#_ftn1" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[1]</a></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Charitable purposes &lt;hyper-link to sub-page 2&gt;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Commercial purposes, such as collective investment schemes (regulated under the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/act/sfa2001" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Securities and Futures Act 2001</a>) and business trusts (governed by the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/BTA2004" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Business Trusts Act 2004</a>).</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Setting up an express trust</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>An express trust is typically, though not always, set up by way of a trust deed, which specifies the terms of a trust.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>For a trust to be valid, it has to fulfil the “three certainties”, namely:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Certainty of intention</strong>: The settlor must have intended to create a trust.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Certainty of subject matter</strong>: The trust asset must be identified.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Certainty of objects</strong>: The beneficiar(ies) must be identified or identifiable.<a href="#_ftn2" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[2]</a></p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Certain other formalities may be required. For example:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A trust over immovable property has to be manifested and proved in writing, and signed by some person who is able to declare such a trust (section 7 of the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/CLA1909" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Civil Law Act 1909</a>). Further, the trust property must also be conveyed to the trustee(s) by deed in the English language (section 53 of the <a href="https://legisgov.agc.gov.sg/Act/CLPA1886" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1886</a>).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; A testamentary trust (i.e. a trust that takes effect on the settlor’s death) is typically declared by a testator in his will or codicil. Such a testamentary trust has to comply with the formalities in the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/WA1838" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Wills Act 1838</a>.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The legal wording of a trust needs to be precise.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>If the above-mentioned requirements are not met, the trust is invalid, and the purported beneficiaries will not be entitled to benefit from the trust property. Instead, ownership of the trust property will remain with the settlor.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>It is therefore recommended that you consult a lawyer when setting up a trust. You may wish to use the <a href="https://eservices.mlaw.gov.sg/lsra/search-lawyer-or-law-firm/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Legal Services Regulatory Authority’s (LSRA) website</a> to find a suitable solicitor or law practice in Singapore.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Alternatively, you may also approach a licensed trust company for trust-related services such as for assistance with creating a trust, acting as a trustee in relation to an express trust, and/or providing trust administration services in relation to an express trust. Licensed trust companies are regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. You may wish to use <a href="https://eservices.mas.gov.sg/fid/institution?sector=Capital%20Markets&amp;category=Licensed%20Trust%20Company" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">MAS’ directory of financial institutions</a> to find a suitable licensed trust company in Singapore.&nbsp;</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Trustees’ Obligations &amp; Duties</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><u>Trustees’ Duties owed to the Beneficiaries</u></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>Trustees manage trust assets for the benefit of beneficiaries. They have certain obligations and duties, including:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Non-Fiduciary Duties</strong>: These include: (i) a duty to exercise reasonable care and skill; (ii) administrative duties, such as a duty to make inquiries regarding what constitutes the trust property when he is appointed; (iii) a duty to safeguard assets; and (iv) a duty to give proper, complete and accurate justification and documentation for his actions as a trustee.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>The trustee has to keep proper accounts of the trust (and the transactions made) and be prepared to furnish the accounts for inspection by the beneficiaries when requested.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <strong>Fiduciary Duties</strong>: A trustee’s fiduciary duties include: (i) a duty to act in good faith and for proper purposes; (ii) a duty not to make a profit out of the trust; and (iii) a duty to not place himself in a position of conflict.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Trustees should seek their own legal advice should they require more information as to the precise nature of their duties.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>A breach of the above duties could potentially render a trustee liable to civil or criminal liabilities. For example, a beneficiary may sue the trustee in Court to seek legal or equitable remedies, such as for compensation or to recover profits that the trustee obtained from the breach. As another example, a trustee who has misappropriated trust property may have committed the offence of criminal breach of trust under the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/pc1871" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Penal Code 1871</a>.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p><u>Trustees’ obligations with respect to obtaining and holding basic and beneficial ownership information</u></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><a rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Trustees are also required to comply with the obligations stipulated in </a><a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/TA1967" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Part 7 of the Trustees Act 1967</a> (“Trustees Act”) and <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/TA1967-S151-2017?DocDate=20210628" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Trustees (Transparency and Effective Control) Regulations 2017</a> (“Trustees Regulations”) if (i) the trust is governed by Singapore law, (ii) administered in Singapore, or (iii) any of the trustees are resident in Singapore, save for the limited trusts which are excluded in the First Schedule of the Trustees Regulations (e.g. where the trustee is a licensed trust company, private trust company, bank or capital market licensee*).</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Amongst other things, trustees are required to:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Obtain and verify information of relevant trust parties (i.e. all settlors, trustees, protectors, beneficiaries, and persons who have any power over the disposition of the trust);</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>2.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Obtain and verify information about the effective controllers of relevant trust parties;</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>3.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Obtain information about persons appointed or engaged as a service supplier to the relevant trust (i.e. an agent of, or a service provider to, the relevant trust including any investment adviser or manager, accountant or tax adviser);</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Update information in (1) – (3) in a timely manner and maintain records for at least 5 years after the trustee ceases to be a trustee of the relevant trust;</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>5.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Inform certain “specified persons” that they are acting for a relevant trust before forming a business relationship, or entering a transaction of more than $20,000 (whether the transaction is carried out in a single operation or in multiple linked operations) with that “specified person”. “Specified person” is defined at Regulation 8(5) of the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/TA1967-S151-2017?DocDate=20210628" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Trustees Regulations</a>, and includes financial institutions, licensed estate agents, and lawyers; and</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>6.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Keep accounting records.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>Failure to comply with any of the obligations listed above is an offence.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>The police may also require the trustee to produce the abovementioned information pursuant to powers of investigation under the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/CPC2010" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Criminal Procedure Code 2010</a> (“CPC”), where it considers the information to be necessary for desirable for any investigation, inquiry, trial or other proceeding under the CPC.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>*Trusts which are excluded from the Trustees Regulations are subject to other regulatory oversight or supervision. For example, Licensed Trust Companies<a href="#_ftn3" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[3]</a> and Private Trust Companies<a href="#_ftn4" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[4]</a> should comply with <a href="https://www.mas.gov.sg/regulation/notices/notice-tca-n03" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">MAS’ Notice TCA-N03 on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism</a>.</p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p><strong>4.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Filing of Tax Returns</strong></p><p><strong>&nbsp;</strong></p><p>Trusts need to file a tax return with IRAS to declare the amount of Singapore taxable income that was derived in the year preceding the year of assessment. Failure to do so may result in penalties. Please refer to <a href="https://www.iras.gov.sg/taxes/other-taxes/trusts" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">IRAS’ website</a> for more details, including requesting for a tax reference number.</p><p><br></p><hr><p><a href="#_ftnref1" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[1]</a> You may wish to approach the <a href="https://www.sntc.org.sg/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Special Needs Trust Company (SNTC)</a> to help you set up a trust for this purpose.</p><p><a href="#_ftnref2" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[2]</a> There are certain exceptions to this, including when a charitable purpose trust is set up.<em>&nbsp;&nbsp;</em></p><p><a href="#_ftnref3" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[3]</a> See Section 3 of the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/Act/TCA2005" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Trusts Companies Act 2005</a></p><p><a href="#_ftnref4" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">[4]</a> See Reg 2 of the <a href="https://sso.agc.gov.sg/SL/TCA2005-RG1?DocDate=20230425#top" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Trust Companies (Exemption) Regulations</a></p>