---
layout: post
title:  ASEAN Prize 2019
date:   2018-02-28
permalink: /news/others/asean-prize-2019
---

28 Feb 2019 Posted in [Others](/news/others)

*Press Release* 

**Call for Nominations for the ASEAN Prize 2019**

11 February 2019 

**JAKARTA** - ASEAN is calling for nominations for the ASEAN Prize 2019—a prestigious regional award which aims to acknowledge the inspiring and outstanding achievements of an individual or organisation in fostering the ASEAN identity, promoting the ASEAN spirit and championing the ASEAN way.


Nominees should have exceptional merit in contributing to the following designated focus areas:
* collaboration between ASEAN Member States;
* collaboration between ASEAN and the world;
* people-to-people engagement among ASEAN Member States;
* economic integration and promotion of standards between ASEAN Member States; or
* excellent contribution to ASEAN Community Building.


A Judging Committee, consisting of eminent high-level members, including incumbent and former ASEAN Secretaries-General, will select a recipient who will be awarded the ASEAN Prize Trophy and a cash prize of US$20,000. This year’s prize will be presented during the 34th ASEAN Summit in June in Bangkok, Thailand.
 
In 2018, the inaugural ASEAN Prize was awarded to Ms Erlinda Uy Koe, a dedicated community leader from the Philippines, honouring her exemplary contributions to the cause of an inclusive ASEAN community. The Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, and the Secretary-General of ASEAN, Dato Lim Jock Hoi, presented the trophy and prize money to Ms Koe at the Opening Ceremony of the 33rd ASEAN Summit in Singapore in November 2018. The sponsors for the inaugural ASEAN Prize were Temasek Foundation Connects of Singapore, the Ayala Corporation of the Philippines and Yayasan Hasanah of Malaysia.

*Award Nomination for ASEAN Prize 2019*
* Nomination opens on 11 February 2019.
* Nominee must be an ASEAN citizen or an ASEAN-based organisation. The nominee must produce verifiable documents highlighting the achievements and impact in ASEAN for the period January 2018 to January 2019.
* The nominee should also share future plans in continuing the work after winning the prize.
* The deadline for submission of nomination to the National Focal Point is 11 March 2019 at 5 pm, Jakarta time. 

Please submit nominations to your respective National Focal Point, as listed below.




<table class="table-h">
<tr>
<th>
ASEAN Member States
</th>
<th>
National Focal Points for the ASEAN Prize
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Brunei Darussalam</td>
<td>ASEAN-Brunei Darussalam National Secretariat,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Brunei Darussalam
Email: Dept.ofASEAN@mfa.gov.bn</td>


</tr>

<tr>
<td>Cambodia</td>
<td>General Department of ASEAN, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Email: mfaic.asean@mfaic.gov.kh</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Indonesia</td>
<td>
Directorate of ASEAN Social and Cultural Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs Email: direktoratkfa@gmail.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Lao PDR</td>
<td>ASEAN Political-Security Community Division, Lao National ASEAN Secretariat Email: aseanlaos@gmail.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Malaysia</td>
<td>ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Division, ASEAN-Malaysia National Secretariat Email: asccd@kln.gov.my</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Myanmar</td>
<td>Socio-cultural Division, ASEAN-Myanmar National Secretariat,Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Email: dgasean@gmail.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>The Philippines</td>
<td>ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Division, ASEAN-Philippines National Secretariat 2330 Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, Philippines Tel.: 8344431, 8344470; Fax: 8321667 Email: asean.div4@dfa.gov.ph, aseanphnatsec@gmail.com</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>Singapore</td>
<td>ASEAN-Singapore National Secretariat Email: mfa.asean.singapore@gmail.com</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Thailand</td>
<td>Department of ASEAN Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (ASEAN-Thailand National Secretariat) Email: aseanthailand_scdiv@mfa.go.th</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>Viet Nam</td>
<td>ASEAN-Viet Nam National Secretariat Email: asean.mfa@mofa.gov.vn; asean.mfa.vn@gmail.com</td>
</tr>

</table>





    

For more information, please visit: [https://asean.org/asean-prize/](https://asean.org/asean-prize/).
 
Follow the ASEAN Prize updates on:  
Facebook: ASEAN Secretariat  
Instagram: @asean  
Twitter: @asean

<p class="right-side-updated">Last updated on 28 Feb 2019</p> 
