---
title: Election of Ms Sharon Ong to the Governing Council of the International
  Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT)
permalink: /news/announcements/18-12-2023-election-of-sharon-ong-to-governing-council-of-unidroit/
date: 2023-12-18
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>18 Dec 2023 Posted in <a href="https://www.mlaw.gov.sg/news/announcements/" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">Announcements</a></p><p>1. At elections held on 14 December 2023 in Rome, Singapore’s candidate, Ms Sharon Ong, was elected to the Governing Council of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (UNIDROIT) for the term running from 2024 to 2028. Singapore is honoured to have a Singaporean candidate on the Governing Council who will be able to contribute her experience to UNIDROIT.</p><p>2. During her term as Director-General (International &amp; Advisory) at the Ministry of Law, Ms Ong was responsible for law reform across a range of civil and commercial issues. She has served as Chairperson of the ASEAN Working Group on the Harmonisation of International Trade Laws, an adviser and expert for research institutes at the Singapore Management University and National University of Singapore in the field of commercial law, and a member of the Advisory Board of the Asian Business Law Institute, among other appointments. She has also previously had legal roles at the State Courts, the Ministry of Defence, and the International Affairs Division of the Attorney-General’s Chambers.</p><p>3. Singapore became a member of UNIDROIT on 1 March 2023. UNIDROIT is an intergovernmental organisation seated in Rome. Its purpose is to study the needs and methods of modernising, harmonising and coordinating international private and commercial law, and to formulate uniform law instruments, principles and rules to achieve those objectives. The Governing Council is a key organ of UNIDROIT, and is responsible for, among other things, drawing up UNIDROIT’s work programme.</p><p>4. As a global legal hub, Singapore’s nomination of Ms Ong to the UNIDROIT Governing Council demonstrates our commitment to contributing actively to the harmonisation of international private law.</p><p></p><p><strong>MINISTRY OF LAW</strong></p><p><strong>18 DECEMBER 2023</strong></p><p class="right-side-updated"><em>Last updated on 18 December 2023</em></p>
