---
title: Response by Ministry of Law to IBA Article on Ravi Madasamy Receiving IBA
  Human Rights Awards 2023
permalink: /news/replies/response-iba-ravi-madasamy-human-rights-awards-2023/
date: 2024-01-15
layout: post
description: ""
image: ""
variant: tiptap
---
<p>15 January 2024 Posted in [Replies](/news/replies)  </p><p>{:start="1"}</p><p>1. To Ms. Almudena Arpón de Mendívil Aldama, President of the International Bar Association.</p><p>{:start="2"}</p><p>2. We refer to your article dated 2 November 2023 titled, “Singapore: Ravi Madasamy receives IBA Human Rights Award 2023” published at <a href="https://www.ibanet.org/Ravi-Madasamy-receives-IBA-Human-Rights-Award-2023" rel="noopener noreferrer nofollow" target="_blank">https://www.ibanet.org/Ravi-Madasamy-receives-IBA-Human-Rights-Award-2023</a>.</p><p>{:start="3"}</p><p>3. Your article alleges, among other things, that “Mr Madasamy’s challenging of the Singaporean government has led to periodic restrictions on his license to practise law, including the imposition of personal cost orders” and that he was “suspended from practising law for five years in Singapore courts for criticising the prosecution’s conduct”.</p><p>{:start="4"}</p><p>4. These allegations are false. The personal costs orders and suspension orders against Mr Madasamy were not imposed because he challenged the Singapore government or criticised the prosecution. Rather, the courts imposed these sanctions pursuant to an independent process for Mr Madasamy’s repeated instances of professional misconduct in multiple cases. A list of these instances is set out in <strong><u>Annex A</u></strong> of this letter. These include:</p><p>&lt;p style="margin-left: 40px"&gt; (a) In 2016, Mr Madasamy was sanctioned by a Disciplinary Tribunal for mishandling client monies and making inappropriate statements about his client on video. In the same year, he was found by the Court of Three Judges to have conducted himself deplorably in relation to the judiciary, his clients and the legal profession as a whole following an incident recorded on video where he made inappropriate and racially-charged statements at the Law Society of Singapore’s premises. Due to his repeated misconduct, Mr Madasamy was prohibited by the Court of Three Judges from applying for a practicing certificate for two years (paras 3 and 4 of Annex A).&lt;/p&gt; </p><p>&lt;p style="margin-left: 40px"&gt; (b) Mr Madasamy was subsequently allowed to return to legal practice under a conditional practicing certificate in 2019 which, among other things, mandated that he had to attend regular medical appointments to monitor his fitness to practice and act under the personal supervision of a supervising solicitor (para 4 of Annex A).&lt;/p&gt; </p><p>&lt;p style="margin-left: 40px"&gt; (c) In disregard of these conditions, Mr Madasamy continued to engage in professional misconduct on multiple occasions from 2020 to 2023, including: repeatedly abusing the courts’ processes; making baseless allegations of improper conduct against the Attorney General’s Chambers and the Law Society of Singapore; and making unfounded allegations of bias against Judges, in contempt of court (paras 5 to 9 of Annex A).&lt;/p&gt; </p><p>{:start="5"}</p><p>5. We are disappointed in the IBA’s characterisation of the instances of misconduct by Mr Madasamy as mere challenges to the Government or the prosecutorial authorities of Singapore. Singapore’s laws and legal professional rules apply to all lawyers equally. Allegations that a lawyer has committed offences, breached professional conduct rules, or conducted cases in an improper manner, are treated seriously, in accordance with due process. Lawyers who are found to have acted improperly will be held to account by the Singapore courts which are independent and highly regarded. Our legal system is trusted and efficient, ranking in the top ten globally for the 2023 World Justice Project Rule of Law Index on the Criminal Justice and Civil Justice factors. Our approach safeguards the quality of legal services, the proper functioning of the justice system, and the rule of law.</p><p></p><p>**MINISTRY OF LAW&lt;br&gt;</p><p>MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS&lt;br&gt;</p><p>15 NOVEMBER 2022**</p><p>&lt;p class="right-side-updated"&gt;Last updated on 15 November 2022&lt;/p&gt;</p>