---
title: 'ASEAN Prize 2020'
permalink: /news/press-releases/asean-prize-2020/
breadcrumb: 'ASEAN Prize 2020'

---


01 April 2020 Posted in [Press Releases](/news/press-releases)


**Call for Nominations for the ASEAN Prize 2020**

**JAKARTA** – ASEAN today launched the call for nominations for ASEAN Prize 2020.

Dato Lim Jock Hoi, Secretary-General of ASEAN said “At a time when the world is facing an unprecedented challenge in COVID-19, we see the best of humanity through the sacrificial efforts of frontline medical and health workers, and those who keep essential public services running at great risks to their lives. Their examples remind us that there are many heroes out there and we should shine a light in their work.” He emphasized that “ASEAN Prize is one way that ASEAN honours their outstanding contributions to our community.”

Established in 2018, this annual regional award honours exemplary achievements of an ASEAN citizen or an ASEAN based-organisation in deepening collaboration between ASEAN Member States and/or with the world through people-to-people connectivity, and social or economic cooperation to benefit the peoples  of ASEAN, among others.

Nominations will be reviewed by a judging committee to be chaired by the incumbent Secretary-General of ASEAN and his predecessors.

The recipient of ASEAN Prize 2020 will, at the 37th ASEAN Summit in Ha Noi, Viet Nam, receive the ASEAN Prize Trophy and a cash prize of US$20,000, sponsored by Temasek Foundation of Singapore and Yayasan Hasanah of Malaysia.

This is the third edition of the ASEAN Prize. In 2018, Erlinda Koe, a dedicated community leader from the Philippines, was the inaugural recipient to be awarded with the Prize for her efforts in building an inclusive ASEAN Community by raising awareness on autism and championing support to families-in-need across the region. In 2019, the ASEAN Prize was awarded to Dr. Jemilah Mahmood, an ardent humanitarian leader from Malaysia for her immense contributions to support humanitarian responses in ASEAN.


***Award Nomination and Eligibility for ASEAN Prize 2020***

* Nomination opens on 1 April 2020.
* Nominee must be an ASEAN citizen or an ASEAN-based organisation.
* The nominee must produce valid/verifiable documents highlighting his/her achievements and impacts to ASEAN since the launch of the ASEAN Community in 31 December 2015.
* The nominee should also share future plans in continuing the work after winning the prize.
* The timeline for submission of nomination to the respective National Focal Point is **<u>5pm (Jakarta time), 13 July 2020 (Monday)</u>**.


*Please submit nominations to the respective National Focal Point listed below. The ASEAN Prize 2020 nomination form can be downloaded at [https://asean.org/asean-prize/](https://asean.org/asean-prize/)*


<table>
 <tr>
  <th>ASEAN Member States</th>
  <th>National Focal Points for the ASEAN Prize</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Brunei Darussalam</td>
  <td>ASEAN-Brunei Darussalam National Secretariat,<br>
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Brunei Darussalam<br>
</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Cambodia</td>
  <td>General Department of ASEAN, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Indonesia</td>
  <td>Directorate of ASEAN Social and Cultural Cooperation,<br>Ministry of Foreign Affairs </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Lao PDR</td>
  <td>ASEAN Political-Security Community Division, Lao National ASEAN Secretariat </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Malaysia</td>
  <td>ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Division, ASEAN-Malaysia National Secretariat </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Myanmar</td>
  <td>Socio-cultural Division, ASEAN-Myanmar National Secretariat,Ministry of Foreign Affairs<br></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>The Philippines</td>
  <td>ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Division, ASEAN-Philippines National Secretariat 2330 Roxas Boulevard, Pasay City, Philippines Tel.: 8344431, 8344470; Fax: 8321667 </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Singapore</td>
  <td>ASEAN-Singapore National Secretariat </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Thailand</td>
  <td>	
Department of ASEAN Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (ASEAN-Thailand National Secretariat) </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>Viet Nam</td>
  <td>ASEAN-Viet Nam National Secretariat </td>
 </tr>
</table>


<p class="right-side-updated">Last updated on 03 Jun 2020</p> 
